docs/overview/installation.rst, before:

.. _install-ref-label:

Installation Instructions
=========================

There are two primary phases for installation:

* prior to the python dependencies being installed
* everything else

Manual Steps
############

First, the steps to get python dependencies installed in a virtual environment are as follows (and shown below)

Kali
----

.. code-block:: console

    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install pipenv


Ubuntu 18.04/20.04
------------------

.. code-block:: console

    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install python3-pip
    pip install --user pipenv
    echo "PATH=${PATH}:~/.local/bin" >> ~/.bashrc
    bash

Both OSs After ``pipenv`` Install
---------------------------------

.. code-block:: console

    git clone https://github.com/epi052/recon-pipeline.git
    cd recon-pipeline
    pipenv install
    pipenv shell


.. raw:: html

    <script id="asciicast-318395" src="https://asciinema.org/a/318395.js" async></script>

Everything Else
###############

After installing the python dependencies, the recon-pipeline shell provides its own :ref:`tools_command` command (seen below).
A simple ``tools install all`` will handle all installation steps.  Installation has **only** been tested on **Kali 2019.4 and Ubuntu 18.04/20.04**.

    **Ubuntu Note (and newer kali versions)**: You may consider running ``sudo -v`` prior to running ``./recon-pipeline.py``. ``sudo -v`` will refresh your creds, and the underlying subprocess calls during installation won't prompt you for your password. It'll work either way though.

Individual tools may be installed by running ``tools install TOOLNAME`` where ``TOOLNAME`` is one of the known tools that make
up the pipeline.

The installer maintains a (naive) list of installed tools at ``~/.local/recon-pipeline/tools/.tool-dict.pkl``.  The installer in no way attempts to be a package manager.  It knows how to execute the steps necessary to install and remove its tools.  Beyond that, it's
like Jon Snow, **it knows nothing**.

Current tool status can be viewed using ``tools list``. Tools can also be uninstalled using the ``tools uninstall all`` command. It is also possible to individually uninstall them in the same manner as shown above.

.. raw:: html

    <script id="asciicast-343745" src="https://asciinema.org/a/343745.js" async></script>

Alternative Distros
###################

In v0.8.1, an effort was made to remove OS specific installation steps from the installer.  However, if you're
using an untested distribution (i.e. not Kali/Ubuntu 18.04/20.04), meeting the criteria below **should** be sufficient
for the auto installer to function:

- systemd-based system (``luigid`` is installed as a systemd service)
- python3.6+ installed

With the above requirements met, following the installation steps above starting with ``pipenv install`` should be sufficient.

The alternative would be to manually install each tool.

Docker
######

If you have Docker installed, you can run the recon-pipeline in a container with the following commands:

.. code-block:: console

        git clone https://github.com/epi052/recon-pipeline.git
        cd recon-pipeline
        docker build -t recon-pipeline .
        docker run -d \
            -v ~/docker/recon-pipeline:/root/.local/recon-pipeline \
            -p 8082:8082 \
            --name recon-pipeline \
            recon-pipeline


It is important to note that you should not lose any data during an update because all important information is saved to the ``~/docker/recon-pipeline`` location as specified by the ``-v`` option in the ``docker run`` command. If this portion of the command was not executed, data will not persist across container installations.

At this point the container should be running and you scan enter the shell with the following command:

.. code-block:: console

        docker exec -it recon-pipeline pipeline

Starting & Stopping
-------------------

In the event that you need to start or stop the container, you can do so with the following commands after having run the installation commands above once:

.. code-block:: console

    docker start recon-pipeline
    docker stop recon-pipeline

This is useful knowledge because Docker containers do not normally start on their own and executing the ``docker run`` command above again will result in an error if it is already installed.

Update
------

To update, you can run the following commands from inside the ``recon-pipeline`` folder cloned in the installation:

.. code-block:: console

    git pull
    docker stop recon-pipeline
    docker rm recon-pipeline

When complete, execute the inital installation commands again starting with ``docker build``.

Commit message:

removed tool_dict dependency, tests incomplete (#93)
* removed tool_dict dependency

* updated tests

* updated go version

* added defaults for failing iteration during tool installation

* Update pythonapp.yml

* updated docs

docs/overview/installation.rst, after:

.. _install-ref-label:

Installation Instructions
=========================

There are two primary phases for installation:

* prior to the python dependencies being installed
* everything else

Manual Steps
############

First, the steps to get python dependencies installed in a virtual environment are as follows (and shown below)

Kali
----

.. code-block:: console

    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install pipenv


Ubuntu 18.04/20.04
------------------

.. code-block:: console

    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install python3-pip
    pip install --user pipenv
    echo "PATH=${PATH}:~/.local/bin" >> ~/.bashrc
    bash

Both OSs After ``pipenv`` Install
---------------------------------

.. code-block:: console

    git clone https://github.com/epi052/recon-pipeline.git
    cd recon-pipeline
    pipenv install
    pipenv shell


.. raw:: html

    <script id="asciicast-318395" src="https://asciinema.org/a/318395.js" async></script>

Everything Else
###############

After installing the python dependencies, the recon-pipeline shell provides its own :ref:`tools_command` command (seen below).
A simple ``tools install all`` will handle all installation steps.  Installation has **only** been tested on **Kali 2019.4 and Ubuntu 18.04/20.04**.

    **Ubuntu Note (and newer kali versions)**: You may consider running ``sudo -v`` prior to running ``./recon-pipeline.py``. ``sudo -v`` will refresh your creds, and the underlying subprocess calls during installation won't prompt you for your password. It'll work either way though.

Individual tools may be installed by running ``tools install TOOLNAME`` where ``TOOLNAME`` is one of the known tools that make
up the pipeline.

The installer does not maintain state.  In order to determine whether a tool is installed or not, it checks the `path` variable defined in the tool's .yaml file.  The installer in no way attempts to be a package manager.  It knows how to execute the steps necessary to install and remove its tools.  Beyond that, it's
like Jon Snow, **it knows nothing**.

Current tool status can be viewed using ``tools list``. Tools can also be uninstalled using the ``tools uninstall all`` command. It is also possible to individually uninstall them in the same manner as shown above.

.. raw:: html

    <script id="asciicast-343745" src="https://asciinema.org/a/343745.js" async></script>

Alternative Distros
###################

In v0.8.1, an effort was made to remove OS specific installation steps from the installer.  However, if you're
using an untested distribution (i.e. not Kali/Ubuntu 18.04/20.04), meeting the criteria below **should** be sufficient
for the auto installer to function:

- systemd-based system (``luigid`` is installed as a systemd service)
- python3.6+ installed

With the above requirements met, following the installation steps above starting with ``pipenv install`` should be sufficient.

The alternative would be to manually install each tool.

Docker
######

If you have Docker installed, you can run the recon-pipeline in a container with the following commands:

.. code-block:: console

        git clone https://github.com/epi052/recon-pipeline.git
        cd recon-pipeline
        docker build -t recon-pipeline .
        docker run -d \
            -v ~/docker/recon-pipeline:/root/.local/recon-pipeline \
            -p 8082:8082 \
            --name recon-pipeline \
            recon-pipeline


It is important to note that you should not lose any data during an update because all important information is saved to the ``~/docker/recon-pipeline`` location as specified by the ``-v`` option in the ``docker run`` command. If this portion of the command was not executed, data will not persist across container installations.

At this point the container should be running and you scan enter the shell with the following command:

.. code-block:: console

        docker exec -it recon-pipeline pipeline

Starting & Stopping
-------------------

In the event that you need to start or stop the container, you can do so with the following commands after having run the installation commands above once:

.. code-block:: console

    docker start recon-pipeline
    docker stop recon-pipeline

This is useful knowledge because Docker containers do not normally start on their own and executing the ``docker run`` command above again will result in an error if it is already installed.

Update
------

To update, you can run the following commands from inside the ``recon-pipeline`` folder cloned in the installation:

.. code-block:: console

    git pull
    docker stop recon-pipeline
    docker rm recon-pipeline

When complete, execute the inital installation commands again starting with ``docker build``.
